Maven is a powerful project management tool that is based on POM (project object model). 
It is used for project build, dependency, and documentation.

Maven repositories are directories of packaged JAR files with some metadata. 
The metadata are POM files related to the projects each packaged JAR file belongs to, 
including what external dependencies each packaged JAR has. 
This metadata enables Maven to download dependencies of your dependencies 
recursively until all dependencies are download and put into your local machine

Three Java build automation tools that dominated the JVM ecosystem – Ant, Maven, and Gradle.

A JAR (Java Archive) is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files 
and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) 
into one file to distribute application software or libraries on the Java platform. 

In addition to the jar, there are also other Java-related archives:

WAR (Web Application aRchive) - contains in imagine a web app
EAR (Enterprise Application aRchive) - contains an enterprise application (usually consisting of several modules)
APK (Android aPplication pacKage) - contains an Android app 

Diffrence between Maven and npm 
Maven in its purest form follows a declarative model, 
where pom.xml (similar to package.json) defines different properties of the build, but contains no scripts.

maven has an additional local repository(cache):
No need to fetch again the same dependency for differrent projects.
Artifacts that are installed locally, are automatically accessible by other local projects.

dependencies from a project build in maven are downloaded in <homedir>/.m2. 
With npm they are downloaded in <projectdir>/node_modules.

Building in maven is commonly a one-step process: mvn package (fetch deps , build). 
In npm it is a 2-step process: npm install (fetch deps) , npm build (build)

maven defines build lifecycles (for building,testing,deploying) consisted of phases, 
to which default operations(plugin goals) attach, based on differrent packaging options(.jar,.war,.ear e.t.c). 
You can then overwrite these operations, or inject new ones (via the plugin system). 
This provides kind of an out-of-the box solution for build,docgen,test,deploy e.t.c.
npm approach is more simplistic ( see: scripts)

Due to the above, npm is labeled as a package-management tool for javascript 
while maven is labeled as a build-automation and dependency-management tool for java.

In maven setting-up the build process more commonly involves editing the pom.xml.
In npm it involves writing code or configuring complementary build tools like gulp,webpack e.t.c

For some reason version ranges defined by users in npm modules, are much more loose than in maven. 
This can cause issues with transitive dependencies, 
that is why an additional file was recently added: package-lock.json

With npm it is much more straightforward to start a new project: npm init. 
With maven, you need to know how to write a minimal pom.xml, or read about archetypes.

In general it is much more common to edit pom.xml than package.json. 
E.g. adding dependencies in maven is done manually (or via IDE) while in npm via command line.

As with all build tools, you can call one tool from inside the other, 
but I think its much more common to call npm from inside maven, than the opposite.

npm supports dev,production builds. In maven this needs to be defined through profiles.

Link: 
Maven:         https://maven.apache.org/what-is-maven.html 
Maven Feature: https://maven.apache.org/maven-features.html