If a table has data redundancy and is not properly normalized, 
then it will be difficult to handle and update the database, without facing data loss. 
It will also eat up extra memory space and Insertion, Update and Deletion Anomalies are very frequent 
if database is not normalized. 

Normalization is the process of minimizing redundancy from a relation or set of relations. 
Redundancy in relation may cause insertion, deletion and update anomalies. 
So, it helps to minimize the redundancy in relations. 
Normal forms are used to eliminate or reduce redundancy in database tables. 

There are various level of normalization 

1. First Normal Form (1NF)
2. Second Normal Form (2NF)
3. Third Normal Form (3NF) 
4. Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF)
5. Fourth Normal Form (4NF)
6. Fifth Normal Form (5NF) 

Normalization 
- Normalization reduces data redundancy to save disk space 
- Reduces the chance of data anomalies(inaccuracy)
- Each stage in the process of normalization is called a Normal form 
- Most databases use one of the following 
       - Second Normal Form (2NF)    
       - Third Normal Form(2NF)
       - Boyce-Codd Normal Form(BCNF)


The normalization process consists of modifying the design through different stages, 
going from an unnormalized set of relations (tables), to the first normal form, 
then to the second normal form, and then to the third normal form.

- Edgar F. codd released his landmark paper in 1970 
        - A Relational Model of Data for large shared Data Banks 
- known as the father of the relational database model 
- Mnemonic for remembering the normal form 


The Key                            The whole Key           Nothing but the key             so help me codd 
1NF                                2NF                     3NF                             BCNF 
key                                Partial dependency      Transitive                      Stronger version of 3NF 
                                                           dependency                      (look up table)   


Database Normalization: Summary
First, second, and third normal forms are the basic normal forms in database normalization:

The first normal form (1NF) states that each attribute in the relation is atomic.

The second normal form (2NF) states that non-prime attributes must be functionally 
dependent on the entire candidate key.

The third normal form (3NF) states that non-prime attributes must be directly 
(non-transitively) dependent on candidate keys.

Third normal schema Link 
https://docs.oracle.com/database/121/DWHSG/ch2logdes.htm#DWHSG9290
