Web Services 
A Web service is a software package that is used for communicating 
between two devices or web entities lying on the network. 
They involve a service provider along with a service requester, 
i.e., the client. Since Web services are advantageous as they are language transparent, 
so there is no issue whether the fundamental system is providing the service 
developed in Java, PHP, or any other language. 
At the same time, the client application is written in Python, Ruby, Perl, or JavaScript.

Web servers are software or hardware (or both together) that stores 
and delivers content to a web browser at a basic level. 
The servers communicate with browsers using Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). 
Web servers can also support SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) and FTP (File Transfer Protocol). 

Web services perform specific tasks. These are:

Usually, web services are searched for over the network as well as call upon accordingly.
As a web service is called, 
it would be capable of providing operation for the client that has invoked the web service.

A Web service is a software package that is used for communicating between two devices 
or web entities lying on the network. 
They involve a service provider along with a service requester, i.e., the client. 

Since Web services are advantageous as they are language transparent, 
so there is no issue whether the fundamental system is providing the 
service developed in Java, PHP, or any other language. 
At the same time, the client application is written in Python, Ruby, Perl, or JavaScript.

Web services perform specific tasks. These are:

Web services are mainly of two types. 
These are:
SOAP Web Services
REST Web Services 

SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol whereas REST stands for Representational State Transfer.
SOAP is a protocol whereas REST is an architectural pattern.
SOAP uses service interfaces to expose its functionality to client applications 
while REST uses Uniform Service locators to access to the components on the hardware device.
SOAP needs more bandwidth for its usage whereas REST doesn’t need much bandwidth.
Comparing SOAP vs REST API, SOAP only works with XML formats 
whereas REST work with plain text, XML, HTML and JSON.
SOAP cannot make use of REST whereas REST can make use of SOAP.

Links: 
Soap Vs Rest: https://stackify.com/soap-vs-rest/
              https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/integration/whats-the-difference-between-soap-rest 
              https://www.upwork.com/resources/soap-vs-rest-a-look-at-two-different-api-styles
              https://www.soapui.org/learn/api/soap-vs-rest-api/ 

SoapUI and Postman are popular API( Application Program Interface ) tools in development. 
APIs can be used in mobile or web applications as they bridge the web server and the application’s client side. 

APIs come in different forms, such as web, database, system, and File APIs. 

For instance, if you want to add a weather forecast to your application, you can fetch data from a weather API. 
Payment processors such as Stripe and PayPal also allow you to use their API to enable the processing of payments. 


Kafka APIs	                                                           REST API

Kafka APIs are used to implement data pipelines,        It is used to act as a bridge between client and server. 
real-time data streams, etc.                            The client requests data from the server, 
                                                        and the server sends back a response. 
                                                        All this is done using the REST API.
With Kafka APIs, you publish and subscribe to topics.	With the REST API, you request and await a response. 
                                                        It is also done on demand.
Kafka APIs store data in topics.	                    With REST APIs, you can store data in the database on the server.

With Kafka API, you often are not 
interested in a response.	                        You are typically expecting a response back when using REST APIs.
It provides bidirectional communication.	        The REST API is unidirectional, i.e., you can only send or receive a response at a time.